docs: Update MongoDB Atlas connection instructions (#47088)
metabase/metabase: docs/databases/connections/mongodb.md

## How Metabase syncs data in MongoDB

> Because MongoDB contains unstructured data, Metabase takes a different approach to syncing your database's metadata. To get a sense of the schema, Metabase will scan the first 10 000 documents of each collection in your MongoDB. This sampling helps Metabase do things like differentiate datetime fields from string fields, and provide people with pre-populated filters. The reason Metabase only scans a sample of the documents is because scanning every document in every collection on every sync would be put too much strain on your database. And while the sampling does a pretty good job keeping Metabase up to date, it can also mean that new fields can sometimes fall through the cracks, leading to visualization issues, or even fields failing to appear in your results. For more info, check out our [troubleshooting guide](../../troubleshooting-guide/db-connection.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because MongoDB contains unstructured data, Metabase takes a different approach to syncing your database's metadata. To get a sense of the schema, Metabase will scan the first 10,000 documents of each collection in your MongoDB. This sampling helps Metabase do things like differentiate datetime fields from string fields, and provide people with pre-populated filters. The reason Metabase only scans a sample of the documents is because scanning every document in every collection on every sync would be put too much strain on your database. And while the sampling does a pretty good job keeping Metabase up to date, it can also mean that new fields can sometimes fall through the cracks, leading to visualization issues, or even fields failing to appear in your results. For more info, check out our [troubleshooting guide](../../troubleshooting-guide/db-connection.md).
```

- **Choose when syncs and scans happen**: By default, Metabase does a lightweight hourly sync and an intensive daily scan of field values. If you have a large database, we recommend turning this on and reviewing when and how often the field value scans happen.
- **Periodically refingerprint tables**: This setting — disabled by default — enables Metabase to scan for additional field values during syncs allowing smarter behavior, like improved auto-binning on your bar charts.

## Connecting to a MongoDB Atlas cluster

> You can use Metabase with Atlas Dedicated and Shared clusters. Metabase does not currently support Atlas Serverless.

### Whitelist IP addresses

If you are using Metabase Cloud, you'll need to whitelist [Metabase Cloud IP addresses](https://www.metabase.com/docs/latest/cloud/ip-addresses-to-whitelist) in your Atlas cluster. If you are using self-hosted Metabase, you'll need to whitelist the IP of your Metabase instance.

1. Log into your [Atlas cluster](https://cloud.mongodb.com)
2. Go to **Network Access**
3. Add the IP addresses that your Metabase uses to connect.

> ### Connect Metabase to your cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect Metabase to your Atlas cluster
```

> The connection string provided in Atlas "Connect" interface does not include the database. Metabase requires you to provide a database name when connecting, so you'll need to edit the connection string to add the database name.

1. Log into your [Atlas account](https://cloud.mongodb.com)

2. Select the cluster you want to connect to, and click **Connect**.

   ![Your cluster screengrab](../images/atlas-connect.png)

3. Select **Drivers**.

> 4. Copy the connection string from **Add your connection string into your application code** section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Copy the connection string from **Add your connection string into your application code** section.
```

   ![Connect screengrab](../images/connection-string.png)

5. In Metabase, go to Admin -> Databases, and click the **Add database** button.

> 6. Select MongoDB from the dropdown, and enter your desired **Display name** for this database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Select MongoDB from the dropdown, and enter a **Display name** for this database.
```

7. Click on **"Paste the connection string"** and paste your connection string.
8. Edit the connection string to include the name of the database after `/`:

   ```
   mongodb+srv://metabot:metapass@my-test-cluster.a5ej7.mongodb.net/DATABASE_NAME?retryWrites=true&w=majority&appName=my-test-cluster
   ```

> See more information about [Advanced options](#settings-common-to-both-connection-options).
> 
> If you are using Metabase fields to input connection information for your Atlas cluster instead of using the connection string, you might need to turn on **Use DNS SRV when connecting**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using Metabase fields to input connection information for your Atlas cluster instead of using the connection string, you might need to turn on **Use DNS SRV when connecting**.

See more information about [Advanced options](#settings-common-to-both-connection-options).
```
